# CGMES-CIM17 CIMTool Project

> [!NOTE]
> This project is primarily complete with the lone exception that the CGMES 3.0.0 Dynamics profile is not yet completed. Should you identify an issue in one of the profiles please submit a GitHub issue identifying both the profile and the nature of the issue.

This UCAIug repository hosts the CIMTool Project corresponding to the **IEC 61970-600-2:2021** published standard for CIM17. The associated RDFS profiles generated by the project are made available by UCAIug under the [Apache 2.0](LICENSE) open source license. The full set of profiles can be downloaded as a separate profiles-only ZIP archive. See further down in the release section for details.

As formally described:

> **Abstract**:  IEC 61970-600-2:2021 defines the profiles included in the Common Grid Model Exchange Standard (CGMES) that are based on IEC 61970-450-series and IEC 61968-13 profiles. This document refers to the IEC 61970-450-series and IEC 61968-13 profiles only in cases where they are identical. If the referenced profile is not yet published, this document includes the profile definition and related constraints’ definitions. In the case where a CGMES profile makes restriction on the referenced profile, the restriction is defined in this document.
> 
>The equipment boundary profile (EQBD) is the only profile that is not part of IEC 61970-450-series and IEC 61968-13 profiles. This profile is deprecated as modifications have been made to align between EQBP and the equipment profile (EQ). Although the updated EQBD is addressing the requirement that boundary also can be located inside a substation, which will be the case for many Distribution System Operators (DSOs), additional information would need to be exchanged. For instance, system integrity protection schemes, that can be shared by multiple utility would require another way of boundary handling. In this document EQBD is included in CGMES only to create better backwards compatibility with previous version of the CGMES.
>
> The machine-readable documentation that supports model driven development of the profiles defined in this part are generated as Resource Description Framework Schema (RDFS) according to IEC 61970-501:2006 (with some extension) and IEC 61970-501:ED2 when published.  

The published standard [IEC 61970-600-2:2021](https://webstore.iec.ch/en/publication/63867) is available at the [IEC Webstore](https://webstore.iec.ch/).

The CIM model is defined and maintained using UML. The source and point of maintenance for the CIM model is currently an Enterprise Architect (EA) file. This permits the model to be viewed and maintained graphically. In the latest releases of CIMTool the Sparx EA project file, is now able to be used within **CIMTool** and used to support generation of context specific message payloads in XSD, RDFS, JSON Schema, amongst others and used for the **IEC 61970-4xx**, **IEC 61968-3** through **IEC 61969-9**, and **IEC 61968-13** standards. While the IEC standard documents are all copyrighted by the IEC, the UML is open source with an Apache 2.0 license and the following statement is contained in all EA UML project files:

> “The entire work provided in the UML project file is dedicated to the public domain.  As such, it is an Open Source document using an Apache 2.0 License.  This work can be obtained from the UCAIug Website using the link [https://cimug.ucaiug.org/](https://cimug.ucaiug.org/).

## License

Distributed under the Apache 2.0 license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.
